This is a report of the branch visit
to the Central America branch and Cuba,
in April.
My wife, Jean, and I
had the privilege to visit the Bethel
in Mexico City and then, after that,
the Bethel in Havana.
At Haggai 2:7 the words of Jehovah state:
“‘And I will shake all the nations,
“‘and the precious things
“‘of all the nations will come in;
and I will fill this house with glory,’
says Jehovah of armies.”
In this part of the world,
hundreds of thousands of people
are flocking to Jehovah.
And currently,
there are over one million preachers
who regularly bring glory to His house.
These two branches are responsible
to care for the spiritual needs of people
in Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador,
Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua,
Panama, Mexico, and Cuba.
In all these places, there are many people
who are really precious to Jehovah.
What makes them precious?
They are fully devoted to Jehovah,
and they display
qualities that he appreciates
—qualities that mean a lot to him.
Let us introduce you to some of them.
Each experience is summarized
by one of the qualities precious to Jehovah.
Please note them
as we briefly relate their stories.
The first experience
is about the brothers and sisters
in the Rio Coco Miskito congregation,
in Asang.
The publishers in that village
wanted to go up the river
to preach to people
in that very remote part of Nicaragua.
But they did not have
the money to buy a boat.
They found a big tree that had fallen,
cut it up, hollowed it out,
and made a boat out of it.
It took 50 of them
just to move this boat into the water.
Then they went up the river
into those remote villages
to preach to the people.
Guess what they used?
—electronic tablets.
Wherever they went they showed the people
the new video publications
in the Miskito language using their tablets.
They gave a tremendous witness.
So even though they
used ancient technology to travel
to these remote places,
they used the latest technology
to preach once they got there.
These brothers and sisters are very creative,
and they make the most of their resources
to accomplish what needs to be done.
The next story is a story of determination.
In Mexico there is a young girl, 8 years old,
named Zurisadai Moreno Humarán.
She was diagnosed with leukemia
and went through a tortuous path of going
to many different doctors and hospitals
where people tried to force blood on her.
Of course, the Hospital Liaison Committee
was working hard to help.
Zuri was flown all over the country
looking for a doctor to treat her,
and eventually she was able
to get the right treatment.
She made a strong stand for Jehovah,
defending her faith.
She was going
to obey Jehovah no matter what.
While all of this was happening,
she decided to get baptized.
She could not do all of this
without her parents and family.
Her face gleams with determination,
doesn’t it?
A circuit overseer in El Salvador
told this experience:
“One time after I finished accompanying
publishers on Bible studies,
“we said good-bye,
and I went down another street.
“A group of gang members
came out of a house.
“I immediately went into the nearest house
to avoid a confrontation.
“I was so glad that the householder
kindly told me to come inside.
“I began to preach to her.
“The lady patiently listened to me.
“About an hour later,
they either got bored or tired and left.
So I took advantage
of the opportunity and left right away.”
The following experience
illustrates how the fear of God
can motivate us to do the right thing.
In a small village in Mexico,
about 2,000 people got together
and expelled
the Witnesses from their village.
They were forced out of their homes
and were not allowed
to bring their possessions.
Among them were grandparents, parents,
little children, and even babies.
They were forced into cars and trucks
and driven out of the village
and dropped off in the mountains.
That night was a cold night.
They were shivering; they had no food,
but they trusted in Jehovah.
I have felt fear,
but it’s a fear of not doing Jehovah’s will,
because many lives would be lost.
Many people
would remain in spiritual darkness.
They would not come to know Jehovah.
So the next day,
he and his family went back to the village
they had been thrown out of
and spoke to the leading men there.
These men agreed that they could come back.
The brothers all came home,
and now the congregation
is flourishing in this village,
and the brothers
freely preach from door to door.
Many young people have left behind
opportunities for higher education.
They’ve stepped out of the boat
and walked on water.
They left behind
so-called security and safety,
and they put their lives in Jehovah’s hands.
Even though they’ve chosen to give up
some comforts of life
to serve in remote areas,
they are happy and live fulfilling lives.
Having our minds focused on the ministry
has helped us as a young couple.
It’s helped us
not to set materialistic goals,
which would enslave us
to work toward financial goals,
but rather to think about the ministry.
I learned that if you put
all your energies into this world,
the world will only use
them to its convenience.
But if you use it for Jehovah,
he will help you feel full
and he will give meaning to your life.
Next, we went to Cuba.
Cuba is a beautiful place.
Although, at this time,
Cuba may not be known
for its physical riches,
it is full
of the most amazing spiritual riches
—what Jehovah calls
‘the precious things of the nations.’
Most of our brothers
do not have much in a material way,
but they are happy
as they work hard to give Jehovah
their very best.
Spiritually, they are rich.
Despite many challenges,
they have around 96,000 publishers,
and many more are coming into the truth.
While they cannot have Kingdom Halls,
they do have meeting places.
The following pictures
show the outside of a meeting place,
and then a view of the inside.
It might not be impressive
from the physical perspective,
but all of them are precious to Jehovah.
The amazing thing is that even though
these brothers do not have much materially,
they are able to offer
part of their property as a meeting place.
Under Cuban law, you inherit property
from your parents, and so on.
Sometimes it’s just a hallway, a room,
or an attachment at the back of the house.
Fifty or sixty publishers
can fit into these small places.
But the point
is that they have meeting places,
and they are able
to have all the meetings.
A remarkable feature of Cuba
is that vintage cars
are used as taxis and family cars.
But the brothers
are up-to-date with JW Broadcasting
and convention videos.
For example,
at the weekly Christian Life
and Ministry meetings,
the videos are used as normal.
They have it all.
How do they do that
without much Internet access?
This is how:
The few brothers
who do have some Internet access
make copies of the programs.
Then they copy them
from phone, to phone, to phone.
Everybody seems to have a cell phone.
Maybe some of the phones don’t have video,
but at least they have sound.
When they go to the meeting,
they play the program on the TV screen,
and everyone gets
the full benefit of the program.
Among Jehovah’s precious people in Cuba
are six brothers and sisters
who are both deaf and blind.
Two deaf and blind sisters
came to Bethel for an interview.
It was amazing to watch
when they met for the first time.
The brothers translate
the study edition of The Watchtower
into Cuban Sign Language.
One local census taken
by our brothers suggests
that about 1 in 5 deaf people
that we have encountered
is studying the Bible
with Jehovah’s Witnesses.
This couple,
who assist with translation, are both deaf.
The “precious things”
of Central America and Cuba
are indeed praising Jehovah.
They are fully devoted to serving Jehovah,
and they always seem to be smiling.
At meetings and at larger gatherings,
it is evident that they know who they are
and that they represent Jehovah worthily.
These precious ones truly appreciate
all the provisions
from Jehovah’s temple arrangement.
And currently, they are helping
about one and a half million Bible students
to bring praise and glory to Jehovah’s name.
And the brothers
at these two branches asked us
to bring to you
their love and deep affection.